Term Entry: Nmap TCP Connect Scan (#1381)
Codecademy/docs: content/cybersecurity/concepts/nmap/terms/tcp-connect-scan/tcp-connect-scan.md

---
Title: 'TCP Connect Scan'
Description: 'Establishes a complete connection to the target host.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Networking'
Tags:
  - 'Networking'
  - 'Cybersecurity'
  - 'Ethical Hacking'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-cybersecurity'
  - 'paths/scan-systems-with-nmap'
---

A **TCP connect scan** establishes a complete connection to the target host by completing a TCP three-way handshake. After the scan is complete, Nmap terminates the connection.

> **Note:** This is not to be confused with another common scan technique, the TCP SYN stealth scan (`-sS`), which completes up to half of its connection with the target host. Therefore, the TCP connect scan takes longer and requires more packets to perform.

The following image shows how this scan connects with the TCP three-way handshake and then terminates afterward: 
  ![TCP handshake and network scan](https://static-assets.codecademy.com/skillpaths/learn-nmap/Performing_Basic_Network_Scans/network_scan_01.png)

## Syntax

```pseudo
nmap -sT <target>
```

> The `-sT` flag is used to perform a TCP connect scan on  a `<target>` host (e.g., a [URL](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/url) or IP address).

Author: ```suggestion
A TCP connect scan connects to a <target> host (e.g., a [URL](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/url) or IP address).
```

## Example

> The following example performs a TCP connect scan on the site [scanme.nmap.org](http://scanme.nmap.org/):

Author: ```suggestion
A TCP connect scan connects to a <target> host (e.g., a [URL](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/url) or IP address).
```

---
Title: 'TCP Connect Scan'

> Description: 'A type of Nmap scan that establishes a complete connection to the target.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Establishes a complete connection to the target host.'
```

Author: "Present-tense verb" got it! :smiley:

> Description: 'A **TCP Connect Scan** is a type of Nmap scan that establishes a complete connection to the target'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'A type of Nmap scan that establishes a complete connection to the target.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Networking'
Tags:
  - 'Networking'
  - 'Cybersecurity'
  - 'Ethical Hacking'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-cybersecurity'
  - 'paths/scan-systems-with-nmap'
---

> A **TCP Connect Scan** `-sT` is a type of Nmap scan that establishes a complete connection to the target by completing a TCP 3-way handshake. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A **TCP Connect Scan** (`-sT`) is a type of Nmap scan that establishes a complete connection to the target by completing a TCP 3-way handshake. 
```

> A **TCP Connect Scan** (`-sT`) is a type of Nmap scan that establishes a complete connection to the target by completing a TCP 3-way handshake. 
> Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a connection-oriented protocol used in modern networking, like the HTTP/HTTPS connection used to view this article.
> After Nmap's TCP connect scan completes the three way handshake, Nmap then terminates the connection.
> 
> This is not to be confused with another common scan technique, TCP Syn Scan (`-sS`) which does not complete its connection to the target host. Because of this, TCP Connect Scan (`-sT`) will take longer and require more packets to perform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **TCP connect scan** establishes a complete connection to the target host by completing a TCP three-way handshake. After the scan is complete, Nmap terminates the connection.

> **Note:** This is not to be confused with another common scan technique, the TCP SYN stealth scan (`-sS`), which completes up to half of its connection with the target host. Therefore, the TCP connect scan takes longer and requires more packets to perform.
```

Author: I like your consolidation here

> This is not to be confused with another common scan technique, *TCP Syn Scan* `-sS` which does not complete its connection to the target host. Because of this, TCP Connect Scan `-sT` will take longer and require more packets to perform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is not to be confused with another common scan technique, TCP Syn Scan (`-sS`) which does not complete its connection to the target host. Because of this, TCP Connect Scan (`-sT`) will take longer and require more packets to perform.
```

>   The image below illustrates Nmap's TCP Connect Scan using the TCP 3-way handshake and then terminating the connection.
>   <!-- add an image here? https://static-assets.codecademy.com/skillpaths/learn-nmap/Performing_Basic_Network_Scans/network_scan_01.png -->
>   <!-- added image location docs/media/network_scan_01.png -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following image shows how this scan connects with the TCP three-way handshake and then terminates afterward: 
```

>   ![Image](/media/network_scan_01.png)

Reviewer 2: This needs to be a full path to where the image will live once this is merged.

Reviewer 2: @Dusch4593, @yangc95 how do we feel about reusing existing Codecademy assets?

Author: @SSwiniarski I addressed this suggestion between lines 23 and 25. I believe the correct full path is now here and correct?
I am not opposed to omitting the image from this pull request and addressing in a different branch, provided you and the rest of the team are okay with reusing Codecademy assets?

Reviewer 3: @SSwiniarski I think if they're reused, we should stick to the format we already have where they're stored in the media folder. I see @joesizzlin has gone ahead and followed that pattern.

I would like to see a full explanation for the linked image though. Since this is documentation, a description should be given 🙂

Author: @SSwiniarski, @yangc95  I am drafting up a brief description for the linked image so that way it is ready to go if we need it. 

I plan to sit on this briefly to be sure there is full agreement: 
1. the image is now linked correctly 
2. if we want to keep the image in the documentation

>   ![Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/network_scan_01.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![TCP handshake and network scan](https://static-assets.codecademy.com/skillpaths/learn-nmap/Performing_Basic_Network_Scans/network_scan_01.png)
```

Since the image we're using is already a static asset file within Codecademy's content base, we actually don't need to save a copy and store in the `media` folder! We can just use the `static-assets` link directly and it should render fine. So let's remove the former link along with the `network_scan_01.png` file stored in `media`. 😄

Author: This is great to know! Thank you :smiley:

Author: removed `network_scan_01.png` :boom:

## Syntax

```pseudo
nmap -sT <target>
```

> The above conducts a TCP Connect Scan on `<target>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `-sT` flag is used to perform a TCP connect scan on  a `<target>` host (e.g., a [URL](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/url) or IP address).
```

## Example

> The following example performs a TCP Connect Scan on the site [scanme.nmap.org](http://scanme.nmap.org/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example performs a TCP connect scan on the site [scanme.nmap.org](http://scanme.nmap.org/):
```

This is not to be confused with another common scan technique, TCP Syn Scan (`-sS`) which does not complete its connection to the target host. Because of this, TCP Connect Scan (`-sT`) will take longer and require more packets to perform.

> The following image shows how this scan connects with the TCP three-way handshake and then terminates afterward: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following image shows how this scan connects with the TCP three-way handshake and then terminates afterward:

```
